---
modified: 2021-06-21T00:56:41-03:00
---

---
layout: post
title: SINDIMUSI
tags: [assessoria]
modified: 2021-06-16T21:17:13-03:00
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">3 jan 2017 - Rio de Janeiro </p>

curiosity

This is my main characteristic as a professional. Due to her, I've already written – and photographed – a little bit of everything.

I've already written about how captchas delay the lives of many deaf people in Brazil; I introduced the deaf political community and its – still small – representation in Brazilian elections; I revealed arms of a conspiratorial movement between candidates for councilor; I explained about a very polarized Brazilian neologism that brought Brazil and Ukraine together; I remotely covered the Suzano Massacre and its sociological and psychological consequences for Brazilian adolescents and youth; I explained how Brazilian trolling works for foreigners; I investigated how musical instruments are forged – and sold – in Brazil; I exposed flaws in the police investigation into the death of a samba dancer in Rio de Janeiro; I showed how a teenager from the Baixada Fluminense was arrested by mistake and, months later, killed by mistake along with his friend who, also by mistake, was accused of robbery by the police; I narrated, with text and photo, how children saw the occupation of Complexo do Alemão through drawings; I confirmed how “Evidence” is THE karaoke MUSIC that unites Brazil, in addition to several other coverages, whether positive or negative. You can't always choose the agenda.

However, I don't just focus on the text. As a photojournalist, I have covered the preparations for the 2016 Olympics and the social consequences of this great event; I helped to represent the struggle of black women in a Rio Brazil that was still quite racist. Multipurpose, I've also acted as a content producer for foreign television (I speak English beyond the “book is on the table”) during the Olympics and in covering a murder in Australia that had repercussions in Rio de Janeiro.

In the meantime, I have also worked as a press advisor, helping the company that makes the Communication of IMPA (Institute of Pure and Applied Mathematics) to renew the website of this prestigious institution with exclusive coverage on mathematics (look at the curiosity there again, helping) and to win prizes in the area. There's more, but despite the space here is infinite, better leave it to another space.
